
#Notes from RSE metrics discussion#

**ACTION**: Simon’s group to take these ideas forward and turn them into a metric collection plan

The purpose of this work is to show the impact of having RSEs in the research community. In a perfect world, we want to show that the return on investment outweighs the investment. 
If we can make this argument convincingly, the funders and universities will be more open to supporting RSEs.

We discussed using publications as a metric. Although this works in some instances, there has to be some push back: publications are used to measure the impact of researchers and we’re not researchers. To win the argument for RSEs we have to challenge the publication list as the only measure of impact in the research community - it is this myopia after all that has caused universities to overlook the contribution of RSEs.

On a similar note, income generated by RSEs could be used as a metric, but may also suffer from the problem that RSEs are often prevented from generating research income.

Other metrics, such as software citations, downloads, projects completed, number and diversity of researchers helped, number of projects you are asked to complete (especially if it’s more than you can staff) may be more suitable metrics. However, this suitability must be balanced with the fact that they are new metrics and, as such, the impact of them will be new to the policymakers we are attempting to influence.

We should not focus solely on software. Number of people trained, especially through scalable training schemes like Software Carpentry, shows that RSEs have an important role in providing the skills needed by the research community. This is a compelling argument for many universities. 

If we could generate a metric that shows the improvement to software that occurs because a RSE has worked on it, we could extrapolate the benefit of an RSE across the research community. We could use a star system or other simple measurement to measure the software before and after an interaction with an RSE to provide us with a comparative measure.

Finally, we need to decide on the people who we are trying to convince. There’s a good reason for lobbying funders and BIS, because they hold the purse strings. However, lobbying universities directly - especially people like VCs and pro-VCs for research and enterprise - would help make the argument at the place where the RSE are actually hired. This is important, because policies promulgated by the research councils, say, have impact but it takes time for the policy to trickle through to university decision makers (who have the power to allow researchers to hire and retain RSEs).

